Cockpit 278 (#568)
cockpit-project/cockpit-project.github.io: _posts/2022-10-18-cockpit-278.md

---
title: Cockpit 278
author: jelle
date: '2022-10-19'
tags: cockpit, podman
slug: cockpit-278
category: release
summary: 'Individual disk/read write usage metrics, '
---

Cockpit is the [modern Linux admin interface](https://cockpit-project.org/).
We release regularly.

Here are the release notes from Cockpit 278 and cockpit-podman 55:

## Metrics: Display individual disk read/write usage

Metrics page now supports monitoring throughput of each individual disk when multiple disks are detected.
![screenshot of display individual disk read/write usage]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/278-metrics-display-individual-disk-read-write-usage.png)

## Pod CPU, memory, port and volume details

> Podman now shows the CPU and memory usage of all the containers in a pod, the CPU usage shown is the highest CPU usage of one of the containers in the pod. Next to the CPU and memory information the exposed ports and volumes are shown, clicking on the port icon shows the port mapping of the pod.

Reviewer: I think "A pod's CPU usage is the highest CPU usage of one of the containers in the pod." is probably not needed? It's kind of an implementation detail, right?

![screenshot of ## pod cpu, memory, port and volume details]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/278-pod-cpu-memory-port-and-volume-details.png)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on the port icon shows the port mapping of the pod.
```

Moving this part be more contextual with the screenshot.

Hopefully GitHub does the right thing with regard to spacing in the file. If not, we can easily fix it.

![screenshot of ## pod cpu, memory, port and volume details]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/278-pod-cpu-memory-port-and-volume-details-2.png)

## Create new pod support

> Podman now allows the creation of pods with an optional port or volume mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Podman can now create pods, including optional port and volume mappings.
```

![screenshot of ## ability to create new pod group]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/278-ability-to-create-new-pod-group.png)

> ![Screenshot from 2022-10-04 11-53-51]({{ site.baseurl }}/images/278-ability-to-create-new-pod-group-2.png)

Reviewer: I have an update to this screenshot, to make the framing more balanced. I'll modify it in the PR.

## Try it out

Cockpit 278 and cockpit-podman 55 are available now:

* [For your Linux system](https://cockpit-project.org/running.html)

* [Cockpit Source Tarball](https://github.com/cockpit-project/cockpit/releases/tag/278)
* [Cockpit Fedora 37]()

> * [Cockpit Fedora 36]()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Cockpit Fedora 36](https://bodhi.fedoraproject.org/updates/FEDORA-2022-614e5cb4e7)
```
